React kudh the virtual dom bnata h fir original dom se sath compare karta h .
React ek open source libary h . Here many developer can contribute 
React m hum separate componet create krte h 


JSX  it stands for javascript xml file . Which allow developer to writehtml file in javascript
It used to make code more readable . JSX get complied into regular js file by use of babel language
Babel transforms JSX syntax into function calls such as React.createElement()
it allow to write html in js .combination of js and html .jsx is mixture of javascript and html 

Js is a simple scripting language . where we write a code and funcrionality .
js is a high level promming language . It can be used to write code in backend and frontend

Functional component are more permformant than class component 

Render() in react js it is used to describe the user interface which current state 

componentDidMouth() - it is method which is called afetr creating an event or upadating that event or making any changes in the event 
componentWillUnmount() - it is called before destruction of componet . It is used for cleaning up the task 

#Difference between Eca6 and Eca5 -> 
ECA5 it a 5th edition of ecmascript and eca6 is a 6th edition of ecmascript
Eca5 it introduce several method of array , number and other different method 
EAC6 it introduce different new features and let and const feature . Arrow function and string literal(``).
6 is the higher version of 5 . it has a better performance. promise callback


#Difference between Functional component and class component
They bith are used to define a componet in recat Js
1.Functional component define as javascript function and return JSX 
1.class component are define as ES6 clases that extends rect component and have render method to return the jsx

2.Functional component don't have state after introduction of hook they have use state,useeffect
2.class component have state . They use this.state and this.setState()

3.lifeCycle method Functional component uses -> useeffect and class component uses 3 phases 

4.class component uses more bolier point need to define different point so they are difficult to understand as  compare to functional component

5.Functional component don't use this keywords . Props and state passed as a parameters
In class components, this is used to refer to the instance of the component, allowing access to props, state, and methods.

So in sort after introduction of react hook sin functional component it become more popular 

Creating class component 
class Name extends Componet{
    render(
        return(<></>)
    )
}

creating functional Componet
Function Name(){
    return(<> </>)
}
const Name =() => (
    return()
)